# Not to include as-is, but one instance of how this gets used by policy makers.

Montana pwned itself with the TikTok ban
Because of concerns over user privacy, the lawmakers in Montana voted to prohibit TikTok from being accessible to users, generally operating, and being available for download in app stores– all within the state. This Montana law marks the US’s first foray into banning apps. It triggers a constitutional conflict, puts digital rights at risk and as we will see below will have the opposite intended effect of forcing TikTok to know more data about users, not less.
[What the bill does]. Effectively, TikTok is the culpable party. This means what the law is really doing is to force TikTok to ban users from Montana.
[And how it does it.] The bill requires compliance on two levels: banning the app from app stores and prohibiting the use of TikTok by anyone in the state of Montana. There are only so many ways to enact compliance with these outcomes, and we conjecture the likely approach below.
How you stop app downloads
App Stores know more about users than applications do. They intentionally keep this information from applications. They have billing address if the user has purchased apps. They also have location data. They know what mobile operator you use, but not the billing information from that operator.
Furthermore, it should go without saying that stopping App Store downloads doesn’t prevent users from accessing TikTok.com. Therefore, TikTok must be asking itself:
How you (don’t) stop users from accessing your service
…by digging deeper to figure out where they’re located. As we learned in the previous section, App Stores have consistently and publicly chosen to deny user data collected at the operating system and app store levels to apps themselves. This played out in spectacular fashion during the COVID-19 crisis when both iOS and Android refused the UK government’s requests to build contact tracing and vaccine certificate apps that would access neither the RDIF chip nor Bluetooth functionality at the OS layers. Apple and Google will not be giving TikTok data about user location for the Montana ban, nor should they.
Moreover iOS explicitly states in its App Store terms that apps may not even ask users for location tracking information unless the application is explicitly for location information, like maps, rideshare, delivery or other location specific uses. TikTok does in fact have a setting to enable location services, but it is not required for the functioning of the app. Moreover, TikTok discloses that it can use SIM card and IP address to get an approximate idea of where users are located, but this sort of intrusive data collection is precisely at odds with privacy activists’ calls for better data privacy protections in social media apps. 
Therefore TikTok is 
We can see how both of these measure will utterly defeat the point of banning TikTok for concerns over user privacy. doing this for the purposes of privacy. You’re now asking a Chinese company to put effort into distinguishing from which state American users accessing the application are from, which they aren’t doing now.
It’s not an appropriate way to get you what you want and it makes the other reason worse.
